In this lesson, we'll convert the sidebar into a sitewide template part and also edit the navigation
links in the site.
You'll learn how to make any content area into a template for use in other parts of the site, making
it available as a global element that can be changed sitewide later.
You'll also customize the navigation links in the header and footer by the end of this video.
You'll understand how to create template parts to be used globally, and also how to change navigation
menus into custom links that can be different for various pages of the site.
On the about page, in the 2022 theme that we've created, we have a section here that shows the latest
three posts, says latest posts, and then on the right hand side in the previous section, you might
have remembered we created a view all button, which would lead to our blog page.
Right now, it doesn't click anywhere.
It just has a hashtag in the URL you can see up here.
And so really, we just need to edit the about page and go in there and make that link correct.
So you just go to pages all pages and we'll go to about.
And as we go down here, there it is, there's my view, all right, there all I do is click the edit
and now where am I going to come up with that new URL?
Well, I could just go over here if I right click my link there, I could say.
Copy, link, address and get rid of this hashtag and paste it right there.
Click there and click Update.
That should solve it.
Let's see.
We'll refresh the about page as I go down here if I click View.
All that brings me to the blog page with the sidebar.
Great.
Now here's another little project.
I know that the the blog archive template re-created is a, you know, kind of a self-contained block
pattern that has this sidebar on it.
What if we wanted to create this sidebar as a template part so that whenever we edit the content of
this template part, we could actually use this sidebar on multiple types of pages.
Maybe there's a category page that would be a category archive page or a different type of page that
we want to use this sidebar.
We might have a use case where you put, maybe, you know, an interactive Facebook sidebar widget,
something like that where you want to have that on all the pages of the site or particular pages where
that sidebar does show up.
There might be other pages like the film page, for example, that doesn't show the sidebar and then
particular pages you might go to that do show the sidebar like blog.
And so how will we go about that?
Let's go back into the dashboard again.
And if we go into appearance, Ed, let's see if we can define the template.
The sidebar as a template part over here.
So I'm going to go into blog and now I do have.
OK, let's see what we have in the list view right here.
This group is right here.
It includes both of them.
There's a query loop and there's a column block right now.
This column, that's a single column.
Here's the columns block and is defined as two columns.
The second column right here, you can see it outlined in Blue.
That's our sidebar.
And I wonder if I just click the three dots over here.
Look at that.
I can click make template part.
OK, so this is going to just be called sidebar.
And what kind of an area is it?
It's not a header.
It's not a footer.
It's just a different a general type of template part.
So I'll leave that selected and click Create.
Down here, it says template part created.
Now I can ex out of that.
Really, I didn't edit this template over here at all.
But if I go to template parts right here now, I have a sidebar template that is created by me, not
by the theme.
What that means is that if I use that sidebar template part within another page, maybe I've got a page
over here.
You know, I could edit this page.
And if I wanted every page on the website to have that sidebar, I could add that template part over
here on the side.
I'm not going to do that right now, but you can imagine the power of using these templates and template
parts to control global elements on the site.
Great.
Let's get into editing the navigation just a little bit.
If I go back, I'll just go back to the dashboard in the WordPress dashboard and open up the site.
There is, you know, we talked about these navigation items being a page list.
And so if I added a whole bunch of pages, every page I add will be added to this page list.
And it's often desired that we customize each of these links so that we can have a navigation menu that
is customizable, customizable to each page.
One thing I noticed is that on the film landing page, when we go back down to the bottom, it has a
home custom link, and it also doesn't show the blog because this is a different type of navigation
menu down here.
So let's take a look at what we can do to first add the blog archive page link down here to the footer
navigation on the film page.
So if I go down here, I'm going to go in the navigation in the I'm going to go in the WordPress dashboard.
Go to pages all pages.
And let's take a look at the film page.
If you remember, we created that footer down here as a specific footer just on this page, it's actually
within the page content.
And you know, this is using a blank template.
So a blank template in 2022 out of the box just has no header and it has no footer.
And so that's why we had to add the footer right here.
And so let's look at the list view again.
If you need a little bit of room while you're looking at the list view, you know you can always close
the right hand toolbar there with that settings gear icon.
And so if I go down here, let's take a look at what we have.
Down at the bottom, I can roll over things, as you remember in that blue line comes up.
So I've got a group here.
We put a spacer in.
There's a row there is a navigation right here and you can see that it has a home link and it has these
specific pages about event and film.
So let's go ahead and click that navigation right here.
And really, all we have to do is add another piece of navigation and that's done with the navigation
block selected by coming over here and using this plus button to add a block so we can add a custom
link or a page link.
Let's add a page link and then it'll give us, you know, recently updated list, or we can search the
pages on the site.
Let's add this blog page.
Great.
So let's put it in the same order that it was at the top of the other navigation menu, which was between
about an event.
And so if you can see instead of up and down, the arrows are left and right now, so I can take this
blog navigation link and move it left one and you can move it, left one more.
And there we go.
That looks great.
Let's go ahead and update.
Now we're updating a particular header navigation that was that was created down here, and that's fine.
This is the navigation header navigation seven.
So we'll just update that.
I can go ahead and, you know, leave the page editor and let's go back and take a look at the film
page, I'll just refresh it.
Great.
That's going to show navigation to our blog page right from the bottom here.
We go back to the homepage.
Let's check out the next navigation up here, where it's showing in the header navigation.
You know, the four pages that we've created on the site itself.
Let's change these into individual custom links so we can limit what pages showing in the navigation
menu and also add a home link over here.
So it takes a little bit of experimentation.
If you edit the template part, you may have some spacing issues that you might have to deal with.
And I'll show you how I go about doing this and did it in the 2020 22 theme successfully.
So I'll go to Appearence Editor and let's go.
Open up the navigation and look at template parts and then the header.
So that header is being used in all those different template parts and templates.
And you can see that if I open the list, view the navigation that we have over here.
On the right hand side is a page list.
And so the first thing you want to do so that we can preserve the layout and how these elements are
lined up with each other correctly.
Before we delete this or change it, just use this little add block button and let's begin adding links.
So the blog.
And a quick navigation again over here again, click the plus oops.
Sometimes it thinks you're clicking the actual link and not the plus button.
So we'll ad film again, click the navigation and this plus button.
To add a custom link, so we want to add the event.
And then seen to be working.
Let's see.
Oh, there it is.
It needs to go in there and search for it.
OK, so we have, let's see, blog film event and then the about page is the next one.
You can see these are dropping themselves in as individual custom page links in the navigation block.
So that's what we want.
Go and click the plus again.
So you thought I hit the event, but I didn't.
I hit the plus.
There we go.
The last one I want is about and I don't see it here, so I'm going to type about and let it search
for it.
It's a page.
There we go.
So now that I have these four in there, I can take this page list and just click Remove Page List.
We're almost there.
Let's put these in the correct order.
Let's see what we wanted here about blog, event and then film.
So I want to take the about and I can just click the left arrow here and move it.
About blog and event and film.
I want to switch.
Here we go.
OK.
And then lastly, I want to add in the navigation menu a custom link to the homepage, so I'll click
Plus again.
This time it's not an existing page, so I'm going to type home with a capital h and you could press,
enter or click it.
Now I have home, but I need to click this little chain link to add the link and click the edit button.
And you can see the URL would be incorrect here.
So I'm going to go back and I'll just right click and say Copy Link Address on the home page link.
Or of course, you could just select this and then copy it, and I'm going to paste it.
We've been here and click that little arrow.
Finally, I just need to move this HomeLink over a little bit.
You could also drag it like there, but I'm going to use the little arrow.
OK, now I'm going to click, save and save one more time.
Now, if we take a look, the spacing usually gets messed up here.
All right, so now there's no space at the top, and then even below this, you know, head or group,
I need to add a little spacing.
It took a little experimentation, but what worked for me was to look at this group and add a spacer.
And I'm going to move it up so that it's above and then make it 80 80 pixels, what is what looked the
best?
And then I'm going to go back to the list view again.
And from that group, I'll add another spacer.
Below, in this time, 60 pixels.
Looked about right.
I'll click save and save again.
And now, if I refresh the page, I've got the correct spacing.
So the home button works, the spacing looks good on the about page that looks good now on the blog
page.
You can see it still matches, even though it's the white background.
It's pulling that that header template part in there.
And so there's the blog page, the event page looking good.
And oh, on the event page, it looks like it's has a different header here.
And in the film page, of course, doesn't have the header because it's using that blank template.
So the reason is the the the event page, let me go back.
The event page is using a different page template.
And so we can add that header into the page template, and that will probably fix it.
OK, so what I did to successfully change the event page over and have the spacing work correctly was
that I edited that specific page.
No title template that we had created before, and I added the header template part that we were just
working on.
So I'll just walk you through what I did, and I went to appearence editor.
And, you know, I went over to the toggle navigation here and under templates.
I edited the page No title.
And then what I did was I went to the list view.
And I added, I went to this group and I went up to the ad a block, and I wanted to search for that
template part.
So I added the template part I clicked, choose existing and I clicked header.
And of course, now it's telling me the black cannot be rendered inside of itself.
And so, you know, that is what I did.
And then I went in and I just, you know, selected the other header and I went here and removed that
group and then saved the template.
And then there was an extra spacer at the top.
I just needed to remove that spacer by clicking remove spacer here and again saved it.
And that's how it was able to be fixed.
So I'll go back without changing anything here.
And if we refresh now, we've got the home page with a nice navigation that's customized for whatever
pages we want it to include.
The home link is included in the event page and all the pages are working nicely.
All right.
A little bit convoluted to work with the different layouts inside of the site editor, but you can figure
out how it works and that's how it works with 20 22 theme with the site editor.